New CAIP profile: interoperable address binary specification (#350)
ChainAgnostic/CAIPs: CAIPs/caip-000.md

---
caip: 000
title: Binary serialization of blockchain IDs and addresses
author: Defi Wonderland (@defi-wonderland), Teddy (0xteddybear)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7930-interoperable-addresses/23365
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2025-04-18
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary
A CAIP profile for every chain namespace to describe how to serialize their addresses and chain references into the Interoperable Address format described in [ERC-7930].

## Abstract
<!--A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.-->
Every chain defines their own address types & also a way to identify networks within that chain's ecosystem.
[ERC-7930] is an address format for (address, chain) pairs supporting any chain, and also including metadata on the chain & addresses' type so no information needs to be communicated out of band.

> This CAIP namespace aims to be a living & mutable repository of serialization methods for all chains to uniformly conform to Interoperable Addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This CAIP aims to append a living & mutable repository of chain-specific address serialization methods to the CASA system in the form of its namespace-specific profiles, enabling all current and future chains to uniformly conform to Interoperable Addresses.
```

## Motivation
Standards like CAIP-2 and CAIP-10 are simple text representations of addresses & chain namespaces/references, but they do not address:
- Binary representation of addresses and/or chain namespace+reference: Relevant & desired for on-chain usage.

> - Canonicity: CAIP-10, being a text format which leaves serialization to actual on-chain addresses undefined, makes no guarantees on a blockchain account (_target address_ in ERC-7930 parlance) having only one CAIP-10 representation, which makes them less useful as dictionary keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Canonicity: CAIP-10, being a generic text format, leaves the canonization and serialization of ASCII address to on-chain addresses to each namespace's profile; unless a given namespace's profile specifies such logic, the standard itself makes no universal guarantees on a blockchain account (_target address_ in ERC-7930 parlance) having only one CAIP-10 representation, which makes them less useful as dictionary keys.
```
For the record, this canonicity issue HAS come up, but CAIP-10 was already final at the time and it was deemed unnecessary for EIP155 because EIP55 is pretty definitive and all known implementations canonicalize to checksum-case for deduplication purposes. See the [Syntax section of the EIP155 profile of CAIP-10](https://namespaces.chainagnostic.org/eip155/caip10#syntax) for more detail.

- Completeness: both formats have limits on the length of their identifiers, which are reasonable for human-readability but often identifiers have to drop meaningful information to conform to those length requirements. While that information might be easy to look up in the context of wallet software, doing so within a smart contract would not be possible.

> - Succinctness: Text formats have an inherent overhead over binary ones when measured for information efficiency in a machine context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Succinctness: Text formats necessarily have incur encoding "overhead" compared to binary ones,  i.e. relative informational inefficiency.
```
